Release notes 2022.3 (#41)
kytos-ng/kytos-ng.github.io: releases/2022.3/2022.3.md

---
title: 2022.3
parent: Releases
---

<div align="center">
  <h1>Kytos-ng 2022.3</h1>
  <a href="https://github.com/kytos-ng/"><img src="/assets/images/kytosng_logo_color.png" width="80%" height="80%"></a>
</div>

<div align="center">
  <a href="https://www.amlight.net"><img src="https://amlight.net/wp-content/uploads/2016/02/AmLlightExP_s.jpg"></a>
</div>

Kytos-ng[^1] version `2022.3` was released in December

## Objectives

This version had these major objectives:

- `mef_eline` should be able to create EVCs with constrained paths and service level prioritization

> - Specify how INT will be integrated and supported via NoviFlow experimenter actions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add support for INT integration and other NoviFlow experimenter actions
```

- All Kytos-ng NApps should have at least 85% of unit test coverage

In order to achieve the objectives of this version, the following enhancements were refined and delivered:

### 1. `mef_eline` should be able to create EVCs with constrained paths

`mef_eline` now supports EVC creation with path constraints that can be applied to a dynamic primary path or secondary dynamic failover paths. The following link metadata contrainsts can be used if they're configured: `bandwidth`, `utilization`, `priority`, `reliability`, `delay` and `ownership`. In addition other path attributes such as total accumulated cost, desired links and undesired links are also supported. The parameters are documented on [mef_eline OpenAPI specification](https://kytos-ng.github.io/api/mef_eline.html#operation/create_circuit).

In addition, `mef_eline` provides service level prioritization to allow EVCs to be handled based on their descending `service_level` value during convergence and consistency checks.

### 2. Specify how INT will be integrated and supported via NoviFlow experimenter actions

> A new `telemetry` has been specified on blueprint [EP031](https://github.com/kytos-ng/kytos/blob/master/docs/blueprints/EP031.rst), which will be responsible for enabling INT on EVCs. NoviFlow switches will be supported via experimenter actions that been implemented by the `noviflow` NApp, and the functionality will be optionally enabled when an EVC is being created. The `telemetry` NApp is expected to be available in the `2023.1` release.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A blueprint has been specified for adding support to `telemetry` in Kytos-ng [EP031](https://github.com/kytos-ng/kytos/blob/master/docs/blueprints/EP031.rst), which will be responsible for enabling INT on EVCs. NoviFlow switches will be supported via experimenter actions that been implemented by the `noviflow` NApp, and the functionality will be optionally enabled when an EVC is being created. The `telemetry` NApp is expected to be available in the `2023.1` release.
```

### 3. `maintenance` stabilization v1 API and integrate with MongoDB 

> **TODO** fill out what will be feasible to be delivered, ask David to update this paragraph

Author: FYI @Ktmi, if you could help out to summarize and update this document later that'd be great, thanks.

> **TODO** fill out what will be feasible to be delivered, ask David to update this paragraph

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`maintenance` has had its API reviewed and augmented consolidating its v1 API. The `items` field has been removed, and has now been replaced with the `switches`, `links`, and `interfaces` field.  The `status` field has been changed to use a string enum, with the valid possible values being `pending`, `running`, and `finished`. `status` is now protected from being set. Maintenance windows now also include the fields `created_at`, and `updated_at` which contain the datetime of when the field was created and updated. Maintenance windows are now protected from overlapping time intervals, with overlapping disallowed unless the field `force` is set to `True`.

Added persistence to maintenance windows through mongodb. All maintenance windows are stored in the collection `maintenance.windows`. Upon initializing the napp, maintenance will update the status of all windows in the db to progress to the appropriate state depending on the current time compared to there start and end time. Then the napp will deploy all `running` maintenance windows, and schedule all `pending` windows.
```

### 4. Support NoviFlow switches on end-to-end tests

> NoviFlow switches are now supported on [kytos-end-to-end-tests](https://github.com/amlight/kytos-end-to-end-tests/) as a target on pre-defined [testing topologies](https://github.com/amlight/kytos-end-to-end-tests/blob/feature/noviswitch/tests/helpers.py). Currently, NoviFlow switches are managed via SSH using `paramiko` and this integration was designed to be seamless with mininet, NoviFlow switches are handled as a mininet `Switch` so you can reuse or write new end-to-end tests.

Author: @italovalcy please feel free to update any other details that might be relevant here, I tried to summarize based on the latest updates. Thanks.

> NoviFlow switches are now supported on [kytos-end-to-end-tests](https://github.com/amlight/kytos-end-to-end-tests/) as a target on pre-defined [testing topologies](https://github.com/amlight/kytos-end-to-end-tests/blob/feature/noviswitch/tests/helpers.py). Currently, NoviFlow switches are managed via SSH using `paramiko` and this integration was designed to be seamless with mininet, NoviFlow switches are handled as a mininet `Switch` so you can reuse or write new end-to-end tests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NoviFlow switches are now supported on [kytos-end-to-end-tests](https://github.com/kytos-ng/kytos-end-to-end-tests/) as a target on pre-defined [testing topologies](https://github.com/amlight/kytos-end-to-end-tests/blob/feature/noviswitch/tests/helpers.py). Currently, NoviFlow switches are managed via SSH using `paramiko` and this integration was designed to be seamless with Mininet, NoviFlow switches are handled as a Mininet `Switch` so you can reuse or write new end-to-end tests.
```

### 5. end-to-end tests should have fewer false positives and support retries

end-to-end tests were enhanced to avoid performing assertions when network convergence can still be taking place, minimizing false positives asserts that could happen. Also, `pytest-rerunfailures` was introduced to help out renunning tests, that way providing additional evidence facilitating to identify and isolate underlying issues.

### 6. `flow_stats` stabilization v1 API

> `flow_stats` has had its API reviewed and augmented consolidating its v1 API. `flow_stats` has simplified its code and responsibilities.

Author: @gretelliz feel free to add or complement any other relevant information here if needed. Thanks

### 8. Support REST endpoints user authentication with MongoDB

The `@authenticated` REST decorator now uses a `users` MongoDB collection instead of an workspace of the deprecated storehouse. User creation is still performed either via `kytosd` cli, and or via the console.

### 9. Upgrade Kytos-ng core dependencies 

Kytos-ng core dependencies have been upgraded to the latest stable compatible versions to leverage upstream fixes, enhancements and be able to leverage more asyncio functionalities:

```
ipython==8.1.1
flask-socketio==5.2.0
flask_cors==3.0.10
flask[async]==2.1.3
janus==1.0.0
jinja2==3.1.2
watchdog==2.1.9
pyjwt==2.4.0
pylint==2.15.0
```
Flask/Werkzeug 2.0.0+ now provide ``async`` support, so NApps can leverage ``asyncio`` and its ecosystem when applicable using the same ``rest`` decorator.

### 10. All Kytos-ng NApps should have at least 85% of unit test coverage

`flow_stats` unit test code coverage has increased to 85%, now all Kytos-ng NApps have at least 85% of unit test coverage. For more information, please visit [Kytos-ng Tests Analytics Dashboard](https://kytos-tests.amlight.net/index.html).

## Kytos-ng and NApps released

> **TODO publish the releases when the time comes**

Author: reminder to nuke this TODO eventually

The following Kytos-ng projects and NApps were released in this version, for further detailed information about what was released and what changed please visit the release page of each project that you are interested in knowing more and look for the changelog file.

Project                                                        | Release Web Page
-------------------------------------------------------------- |------------------------------------------------------------------------
[kytos](https://github.com/kytos-ng/kytos)                     | [kytos](https://github.com/kytos-ng/kytos/releases)

> [ui](https://github.com/kytos-ng/ui)                           | [ui](https://github.com/kytos-ng/ui/releases)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[python-openflow](https://github.com/kytos-ng/python-openflow)                           | [python-openflow](https://github.com/kytos-ng/python-openflow/releases)
[kytos-utils](https://github.com/kytos-ng/kytos-utils)                           | [kytos-utils](https://github.com/kytos-ng/kytos-utils/releases)
[ui](https://github.com/kytos-ng/ui)                           | [ui](https://github.com/kytos-ng/ui/releases)
```

[kytos/topology](https://github.com/kytos-ng/topology)         | [kytos/topology](https://github.com/kytos-ng/topology/releases)
[kytos/of_lldp](https://github.com/kytos-ng/of_lldp)           | [kytos/of_lldp](https://github.com/kytos-ng/of_lldp/releases)
[kytos/mef_eline](https://github.com/kytos-ng/mef_eline)       | [kytos/mef_eline](https://github.com/kytos-ng/mef_eline/releases)
[kytos/maintenance](https://github.com/kytos-ng/maintenance)   | [kytos-ng/maintenance](https://github.com/kytos-ng/maintenance/releases)
[amlight/coloring](https://github.com/kytos-ng/coloring)       | [kytos-ng/coloring](https://github.com/kytos-ng/coloring/releases)
[amlight/sdntrace](https://github.com/kytos-ng/sdntrace)       | [kytos-ng/sdntrace](https://github.com/kytos-ng/sdntrace/releases)
[amlight/flow_stats](https://github.com/kytos-ng/flow_stats)   | [kytos-ng/flow_stats](https://github.com/kytos-ng/flow_stats/releases)
[amlight/sdntrace_cp](https://github.com/kytos-ng/sdntrace_cp) | [kytos-ng/sdntrace_cp](https://github.com/kytos-ng/sdntrace_cp/releases)

### Switches Compatibility List

> **TODO only add NoviFlow info once RC period is confirmed**

Author: reminder to nuke this TODO eventually
